# Minutes of RDLS Technical Steering Committee 2025-2026 NO. 1

19 November 2025 / 08:00-09:00 EDT, 13:00-14:00 GMT / via Teams

## Attendees
Pierre Chrzanowski, Mattia Amadio, Stuart Fraser

**SG members:**
- James Allard, JBA Risk Management
- Rachel Vint, Open Data Services
- Ric Huting, Royal Haskoning
- Tom Russell, Environmental Institute, U. Oxford
- Sam Roeslin, EU JRC


**Agenda**
- Introductions​
- Update ​
- Gates Foundation Funding scope and activities​
- RDLS Team​
- Current state of development​
- Questions, feedback​
 

## Notes
-  Introductions included members' previous and current connection with RDLS
  - Rachel - ODS development work especially through 2023
  - James - testing schema for JBA, connection through Urban Flood Risk Assessment Framework (UFRA)
  - Sam - using RDLS with Risk Data Hub
  - Tom - exploring use of RDLS through global work and data on infrastructure
  - Ric - working on UFRA but not seeing requests to include RDLS in TORs so haven't used yet

- SF gave presentation RDLS_GF_SG1_Nov25 (saved in same folder as these notes)
  - Gave wider context of RDLS in Gates Foudnation funding, connections to scans, etc
  - Summarised workplan and activities; team / ecosystem
  - Keen to idenify opportunities where RDLS could get profile - example being UCL IPP report (in slides)

- MA gave short demo of MDE - completion through validation to submission; described of the major changes; flagging that this MDE is ahead of online documentation until Feb/March

## Discussion
-	SR: How best to contribute feedback?
  -	SF: repo (but acknowleding there are many, put comments into any if you cant find the right place and we’ll move it if needed). Also email

-	PC: Minutes and logo on RDLS communications ok?
    -	All agree minutes can be online
    -	Tom checking logo
    -	Stu to check version logo and get latest/preferred

-	Mat demonstrated editor
  -	Sam – working on losses: good to see more easily the connection with fields - will test and provide feedback

- Communications / outreach 
  -	Bonn technical forum - Sam attending, keen to talk about RDLS; follow up to align.
  -	Tom – working with UNDRR and UNEP GRID on Global risk metrics - will monitor for possible connections to RDLS 

## Actions:  
- SF - plan Jan call, 2nd week.
- SF - check logo we have and preferred logo for communications.
- SF - Send urban data review outputs for SG feedback.
- SF - Send slides and github repo links.
- SF/PC - align with Sam on Bonn Tech Forum
 
    







