# Minutes of RDLS Fellows project Steering Committee No.2

7 DECEMBER 2022 / 09:00-10:00 EDT, 14:00-15:00 GMT / via Zoom

## Attendees

Pierre Chrzanowski, Stuart Fraser, Mattia Amadio, Andrea Garcia (GFDRR) 
Carolina Hess (SwissRe Foundation)
Rachel Vint, Jen Harris (Open Data Services)

SC members: 
-	Beat Aeberhardt, Swiss Re
-	Paul Henshaw, GEM Foundation
-	Matt Donovan, ODS
-	Stephen Hutchings, JBA Risk Management

Apologies:
-	Tiziana Rossetto, UCL EPICentre
-	Nick Moody, IDF/GRMA
-	Cristiano Giovando, GFDRR

## Agenda

1.	Welcome new SC members: Stephen, Nick
2.	Welcome new project team members - Jen Harris and Rachel Vint (Open Data Services), Andy Garcia, Cristiano Giovando (GFDRR).
3.	Review progress on actions from last meeting 
○	Sending minutes, 2 weeks to amend, then put online as pdf https://github.com/GFDRR/rdl-standard/tree/main/SteeringCommittee 
○	Made decision on licence to use (data and software): CC-BY-SA for data. Software: GPL. With clear terms of use and an invitation to anyone working on changes to the standard to contact us.
4.	Update on using RDL Standard in practice: Tiziana - status of MVDat. JBA use (Stephen). Central Asia case (Stuart).
5.	Component 2: Support the design and development of training material / tools
○	Open Data Services - how they work with standards - first impressions of RDL Standard, and  expected tasks ahead
○	Questions to SC: what would be valuable to help SC members and industry peers better understand and use RDL [could be in conjunction with ODS]?
6.	Component 3: Select and support a community of Fellows
○	Update on the fellowship program - Progress on recruitment - including standards technical lead, Fellows.
○	Timeline of Fellowship program
○	Questions to SC: Activities that coincide to complement / collaborate? Potential to share knowledge into non-Fellowship countries via activities?
7.	Roadmap for next two months.
8.	AOB

## Notes

Components, for reference:
1.	Review and enhance the current version of the Risk Data Library Standard to better respond to disaster and climate risk management needs in the selected countries. In particular, it will focus on extending the Risk Data Library Standard to support the integration of socioeconomic indicators and urban informal settlements in climate risk analysis
2.	Support the design and development of training material, documentation and open-source tools to facilitate the adoption and effective use of the Risk Data Library by different groups of users.
3.	Select and support a community of Fellows from the selected countries to create, learn and communicate climate risk knowledge for their own countries or cities.

-	Update given on licensing decision, and decision on minutes. No comments
-	Practical example: In progress with some blocks on folder structures not aligning with how we would want users to search the data (refining that process with emphasis on how users would want to interrogate the data online). Also, discussion on how base data, which supports the development of hazard maps should be stored, when provided as part of a model package, as in Central Asia. Work in progress, how to be able to show data on RDL Collection next mtg.
-	ODS:
-	Initial impressions - see slides provided 
-	Approach: technical review until Feb, propose updates on standard, development environment, documentation, tooling, etc. We are looking for feedback from the SC.
-	Providing adoption support, capturing learnings for later improvements, and tooling needs.
-	Require from SC: feedback, validation of findings and engagement with tech review, enhanced version, tool recs. Assist with high-level prioritisation, and domain knowledge from SC, knowledge from end users.
-	Questions and comments from SC: 
-	MD: Aiming to bridge H/V gap between RDL and ODS - will make getting models onto oasis from hum/dev space a bit easier. IDF-funded project for next year to bring RDL metadata across. + background to ODS
-	BA - need a way to link to the standard. Standard alone does not help from a model building perspective - need to make a connection into the tool and framework
-	PH: tool support - esp automated validation as a pain point - files currently used for V/H in oasis are very linked to the  model implementation - there is value to work in that space
-	PC:
-	2 paradigms - V as part of the model and not part of the model. Need to dig a bit more into that. PH: for GEM one of the biggest difficulties of starting to work with oasis, was whether exposure is considered part of the model (OQ - it is part of the model; in oasis, the model must be able to handle (almost any) exposure data provided by clients)
-	Propose a session to discuss portals that are compliant with risk data standards  - understand how portals can respond to needs.
-	Engagement with WB, on specific countries - good use case for the project to engage with - look at how access can be made easier. Can we learn about the data gap through these use cases.
-	For next SC - conversation on vulnerability and exposure - to include Qs on data sources, formats, why the data are separate / in the model, what happens to it in preparation, afterwards, when outputs shared.

-	Update on the Fellowship
-	Fellows to become ambassadors of RDL Standard, help us with adoption through use of the standard and create RDL compliant data.
-	Applications: 34 countries selected, 8 from other countries + 4 new ones
-	40% have masters, 35% starting or having PhD. 30/70 F/M split. Backgrounds in hydrology, geology, economics, political science, lots are studying DRM
-	Call closing this Friday.
-	Review progress in the coming weeks.
-	Match Fellow applications and WB projects. Issued a call for interest from WB teams for assistance with risk data.
-	Interest for stated countries but also Kiribati. Will help us understand the need for risk data.
-	Aim to have contracts signed for Fellows in January. Interviews with shortlisted fellows in 2 weeks’ time - WB STC Short-term Contract for 75 days to June, with a possible extension to September.
-	Will also be looking for mentors to support projects - depending on their project match, focus, and location.

## Action Items

1.	GFDRR: complete recruitment process of fellows, summarise recruited fellows for/at next meeting
2.	Stephen: sending his comments on review of the standard to Rachel and Jen

## Next Meeting Agenda

Date: January 12th 
1.	Conversation on vulnerability and exposure - to include Qs on data sources, formats, why the data are separate / in the model, what happens to it in preparation, afterwards, when outputs shared.
2.	Update on Fellows recruitment - Fellows recruited, projects matched.
3.	Update from Open Data Services on technical review, any insights needed from SC at this point?
4.	TR Update on the vulnerability schema () - MV-Dat (requested to move from #2) and Mattia Amadio to discuss thoughts on changes needed in RDL Standard
