# Minutes of RDLS Fellows project Steering Committee #3

12 January 2023 / 09:00-10:30 EDT, 14:00-15:00 GMT / via Teams

## Attendees

Pierre Chrzanowski, Mattia Amadio, Andrea Garcia (GFDRR) 
Carolina Hess (SwissRe Foundation)
Rachel Vint, Jen Harris (Open Data Services)
SC members: 
-	Beat Aeberhardt, Swiss Re
-	Paul Henshaw, GEM Foundation
-	Matt Donovan, ODS
-	Stephen Hutchings, JBA Risk Management
-	Tiziana Rossetto, UCL EPICentre
-	Nick Moody, IDF/GRMA

## Agenda

1.	Update on the vulnerability schema - Tiziana 
2.	Update on the Fellowship Program - Pierre 
3.	Update on the technical review of the standard - Rachel, Jen 
4.	Update on Oasis/ODS - Matt 
5.	Update on GRMA - Nick 
6.	Thoughts and discussion on priority changes needed in the RDL Standard – Mattia 
Notes

## Update on the Vulnerability Schema

●	TR started by providing an overview of the work done so far:
Objective is to support comparison of different sets of vulnerability data and different intensity levels
Once development is finished, would appreciate feedback from the SCM members
Looking to increase the user base
 
●	Series of questions
MD: How it looks like? Does vulnerability covers at global level?
TR: It has different functions all the way to asset level, including different types of assets such as infrastructure (residential and industrial). The fragility functions are done with standard equations, parametric and non-parametric models. It is searchable by different features. Maybe it is worth to discuss if they should push the initiative to have a more generalized function  for different global regions.
MD: It is important having vulnerability functions for other regions
TR: They need continuity in the funding to maintain the system and that people contribute  with the fragility and vulnerability functions. It could be interesting to see how it will interact with the RDL.  Using and extending GED4ALL Taxonomy
PH: Suggested on having a call just to discuss the topic of extensions/updates to RDLS components and how is the ongoing maintenance of the RDLS and how that can be coordinated after looking how vulnerability looks at OASIS project; How to bridge the gap between different models; Vulnerability csv files in OASIS are tightly linked with other OASIS model implementation files (e.g. intensity and damage bins), it would be good to discuss the limits and scope of the vulnerability models and how users should use them ( Stuart might have a better idea)
MD: OASIS need specific data to consume (binary files) and depend in providers data , they need a converter
PH: Data conversion is not a big deal, but choosing the right intensity bin is important and has a great impact on the result of the model. It is obscure how people will use it; It is important to leverage the knowledge the group has
TR: It would be valuable to talk more in depth about the risk modelling
PC: Let´s bring together the different functions and let’s talk on how to include TR work on the DLS. Even look for funding together. It could be useful for World Bank members to assess other areas, there could be a funding element there.
SH: Selection of vulnerability given imperfect data

## Update on the fellowship

●	6 World Bank Projects were selected 
●	More than 114 applications for the fellowship. We had a good balance between the priority countries. 
●	From the applications we had 30% female and 70% male
●	We shortlisted 14 to interview in the following weeks
●	Fellowship will start in February 

Update on the technical review of the standard - Rachel, Jen 
●	Presentation of the outline for the Technical Review of the standard. 
●	What they presented is based on Open Data best practices and they will have a draft for the next Steering Committee meeting in March 


## Update on Oasis/ODS - Matt

●	Just released the ODS 3 version 
●	The Governance structure of the project is available on the Github

## Update on GRMA - Nick

●	What mechanism should be use to socialize the RDLS
●	Suggested to see the video and explore the GRMA page
●	They are working in building a community and facilitating cross pollination among risk management experiences. 

## Thoughts and discussion on priority changes needed in the RDL Standard – Mattia

●	Presentation of the Risk Data Schema v0.1
●	Addition of other socioeconomic data
●	The need of a different sub component of the poverty data was raised
●	Try to offer a catalog of impact models 
●	What format is universal?

## Next Meeting Agenda

Date: March 9
1.	More in depth presentation of the vulnerability work undertaken by UCL
2.	Update on Fellows recruitment 
3.	Update from Open Data Services on technical review and priority tasks for the review and enhancement of the RDLS

